[Music]
already you frequent fliers get ready
for eight ways to survive a plane crash
according to flight attendants they say
the airplane is the safest mode of mass
transportation in the world your chances
of dying in a plane crash are about 1 in
11 million which means the worst only
happens once every two million flights
however you have a chance to survive a
plane accident if you follow certain
important rules like don't get on in the
first place
well alright here's number 1 if possible
choose larger planes not all plane
accidents are fatal
sometimes the aircraft can lose altitude
slide off the runway or get into extreme
turbulence without any passengers dying
or even getting injured although you
might lose your peanuts the US National
Transportation Safety Board study past
aircraft accidents and calculated
there's a 95 percent survival rate on
those if you'll have a choice when
buying tickets make it wisely
according to Boeing the safest aircraft
to fly in are Boeing 707 bombardier
crj700 900-1000 regional jet family
Airbus a380 Boeing 787 Boeing 747-8
Airbus a350 and Airbus a340 these planes
have never gotten into fatal accidents
the Airbus a320 family and the Boeing
737 family also have great safety
records airlines operating larger jets
always follow the super strict safety
regulations smaller airplanes of
regional carriers have a somewhat higher
accident rate it's not just because of
the planes but also the fact that their
pilots are often overworked and less
experienced number two pick the right
seat
now if the left might work for you too
but I mean how about pick the correct
seat when picking your seat on an
airplane always remember the five row
rule your chances of survival are much
higher if you're sitting in the exit row
or within a 5 Road distance from it
according to Professor ed Galia of the
University of Greenwich plane crash
survivors are normally those people who
covered the distance of five rows to
safety he analyzed 105 plane crashes and
interviewed over two thousand such
survivors and crew members to come to
this conclusion
the aisle seat is a better choice for
the same reason you'll need less time to
escape from it it gives you a higher
chance of survival with 64% compared to
58% of those who are right by the window
we all know there are emergency exits in
different parts the plane so which one
should you choose to sit next to go for
the back of the plane Time magazine
analyzed data of the Federal Aviation
Administration aircraft accident
database for flights over the course of
35 years they concluded the fatality
rate in the rear third of the aircraft
was 32 percent the middle part 39
percent and the front third had a 38%
likeliness of fatality of course there
are exceptions to each rule there are
stories of survivors who cover the
distance of 19 rows to the emergency
exit and sometimes when exits got
blocked or jammed people who were
sitting right by them had to look for
other ways to safety number 3 dress
appropriately so don't dress to impress
as you're getting ready to get on board
dress to survive instead are you sure
you'll be able to run for your life on
high heels or in a pencil skirt yeah I
don't think so
put on comfy jeans and sports shoes
instead if a plane has to make an
emergency landing and the engine gets on
fire
you'll want to be dressed in something
that won't catch on that fire a report
from the National Transportation Safety
Board states that 68% of all passing
and aircraft accidents died of burn
injuries and smoke inhalation to
increase your safety levels we're 100%
organic cotton or wool those materials
don't melt unlike synthetic fabrics take
a handkerchief with you so you can make
wet and use as a breathing mask in case
you don't get a regular one pick a
long-sleeve clothes to cover more of
your skin number four study the safety
car and listen to the flight attendants
yep that's me frequent fliers will most
likely ignore this one if you're one of
them here is news for you Federal
Aviation Administration reports that
those who fly more often and choose to
skip the safety rules are the least
informed passengers on the flight you
can sure fasten your seat belt no
problem but do you know how to put on
your oxygen mask or inflate the
lifejacket don't ignore the safety
instruction and watch the flight crew
point the emergency exits nearest to you
as well have an evacuation plan in mind
because if it comes to the worst you
won't have time to figure out the
quickest route to safety click like if
you promise to pay attention to what
you're being told the next time you fly
hey well done
number five remember the plus three
minus eight rule here's some math flight
crash statistics show that around 80
percent of all crashes happen during the
first three minutes after takeoff in the
last eight minutes before landing so
it's critically important that you stay
focused and alert during those time
intervals don't drink any alcohol before
the flight it will get you to relaxed
and unable to take action if something
happens don't fall asleep
until the plane is stable in the sky and
wake up before landing make sure your
seat belt is fastened securely and your
shoes are on those shoes better be
sneakers or just flats keep your
emergency action plan in mind and go
over it but don't freak out and scare
other passengers remember an
accident is super unlikely to happen but
if it does you'll know what to do
number six brace for impact
when the plane is making an emergency
landing the crew will ask you to brace
for impact
it's a good idea also to remove all
sharp objects from your pockets if you
have time for that your keys
pens and carry-on will block the way to
evacuation if they spread on the floor
then check if your seat belt is securely
fastened it will help minimize the
effect of gravity force on you if there
is a seat in front of you cross your
hands on it and place your forehead on
top of the hands to protect your head
from injuries if there is no seat in
front of you to lean on bend over as far
as you can grab your knees and rest your
head on them keep it down into the plane
stops cover your head with your hands
for extra protection if you have any
doubts as to which position you should
take consult the safety card the right
position can save you from injury number
be prepared to escape in 90 seconds once
you've survived a crash landing it's
high time to get out of that airplane
you will have no time for hesitation or
panic since all you've got is 90 seconds
so people who are young and physically
fit have more chances of surviving at
this stage fire spreads unbelievably
quickly and consumes everything in its
way so you can't celebrate your survival
and embrace others before you exit the
aircraft and move to a safe distance
from it most people underestimate the
power of fire and believe it would take
around a half an hour for a plane to
burn to ashes according to surveys it's
just a minute and a half so use it
wisely
and follow the safe escape rules
speaking of which number eight follow
the general safe escape rules in case of
emergency landing and evacuation don't
panic
once the plane is on ground or water
unfasten your seat belt and quickly move
to the exit don't push people trying to
get in front of them remember there are
other exits
if the aisle is blocked climb over seats
bending their backs
don't take carry-on with you keep your
hands-free avoid inhaling smoke protect
your mouth and nose with your clubs bend
down or grabble toward the exit
don't open the emergency exits if there
is fire or smoke behind them once you
get out of the plane run away from it as
fast as possible to save yourself from
the explosion don't let the fear of fly
prevent you from going places
remember that planes are becoming safer
and safer and according to the National
Transportation Safety Board ninety five
point seven percent of passengers
survive even if some accident happens so
like this video and share it with your
friends to help us spread this important
information don't forget to subscribe to
our Channel and turn on post
notifications to keep up with our
updates and I'll see you next time on
the bright side